# MotorVehicleCollision

The city of New York has maintained a database for all crashes called “Motor Vehicle Collisions” which contains details on the crash event. Each row represents a crash event. The Motor Vehicle Collisions dataset contains information from all police reported motor vehicle collisions in NYC. The police report is required to be filled out for collisions where someone is injured or killed, or where there is at least $1000 worth of damage. Police officers complete form MV-104AN for all vehicle collisions which after filling and entering in the system, will update the dataset with the information of the latest collison. 

Originally this dataset contains information about 1,048,575 crashes with 19 columns describing various factors of the crash. As you can observe, it is a massive dataset with a huge number of observations. We performed some data pre-processing on the dataset to prune out missing values and remove rows which did not contain specific information as it would not help us with the scope of this project. After data pre-processing, we removed a considerable amount of empty rows and unspecified observations to bring down the number of rows that would actually be useful in this project to 61933 rows and 19 columns. This dataset contains information of crashes in New York City from 2012-07-27 to 2022-10-04 before pre-processing and after pre-processing, the dataset contains crash information from 2016-03-23 to 2022-09-05.

We will split the dataset and apply machine learning models that can predict in which borough an accident is likely to occur based on the given information. Here we will use certain columns as our feature variables and use the ‘borough’ column as our target variable.
